# Lerna Hoisting

> Use caution when enabling this feature, as certain configurations can cause problems.

When an overall project is divided into more than one NPM package, this
organizational improvement generally comes with a cost: the various
packages often have many duplicate dependencies in their `package.json`
files, and as a result hundreds or thousands of duplicated files in
various `node_modules` directories. By making it easier to manage a
project comprised of many NPM packages, Lerna can inadvertently
exacerbate this problem.

Fortunately, Lerna also offers a feature to improve the situation -
Lerna can reduce the time and space requirements for numerous copies of
packages in development and build environments, by "hoisting" shared
dependencies up to the topmost, Lerna-project-level `node_modules`
directory instead.

`--hoist` is intended to be transparent in use, a runtime optimization
that ideally does not require any other modifications to a project.
When the `--hoist` flag is used:

* Common dependencies will be installed *only* to the top-level
  `node_modules`, and omitted from individual package `node_modules`.
* Mostly-common dependencies are still hoisted, but outlier packages
  with different versions will get a normal, local `node_modules`
  installation of the necessary dependencies.
  * In this instance, `lerna bootstrap` will always use `npm install`
    with the `--global-style` flag, regardless of client configuration.
* Binaries from those common packages are symlinked to individual
  package `node_modules/.bin` directories, so that `package.json`
  scripts continue to work unmodified.
* Well-behaved Node-based software should continue to work unmodified.

## Module resolution

The [Node module resolution algorithm](https://nodejs.org/api/modules.html#modules_loading_from_node_modules_folders)
is recursive: When looking for package `A`, it looks in a local
`node_modules/A` directory, then in `../node_modules/A`,
`../../node_modules/A`, `../../../node_modules/A`, etc.

Tooling that follows this specification can transparently find
dependencies which have been hoisted.

Unfortunately, some tooling does not follow the module resolution spec
closely, and instead assumes or requires that dependencies are present
specificially in the local `node_modules` directory. To work around
this, it is possible to symlink packages from their hoisted top-level
location, to individual package `node_modules` directory. Lerna does
not yet do this automatically, and it is recommended instead to work
with tool maintainers to migrate to more compatible patterns.
